---
layout: post
title: "Benign"
date: 2025-02-13
tags: ["tryhackme"]
categories: [tryhackme]
hubs: "TryHackMe/SOC Level 1/Security Information and Event Management"
identifier: "20250213T000000"
source_id: "fd9fb002-28a2-419c-bca3-981b419efd68"
source_urls: "(https://tryhackme.com/room/benign)"
source_path: "SOC Level 1/Security Information and Event Management/20250213T000000--benign__tryhackme.md"
---


# Benign

# Task 1 | Introduction

Start MachineWe will investigate host-centric logs in this challenge room to find suspicious process execution. To learn more about Splunk and how to investigate the logs, look at the rooms [splunk101](https://tryhackme.com/room/splunk101) and [splunk201](https://tryhackme.com/room/splunk201).

Room Machine

Before moving forward, deploy the machine. When you deploy the machine, it will be assigned an IP. Access this room via the AttackBox, or via the VPN at `MACHINE_IP`. The machine will take up to 3-5 minutes to start. ll the required logs are ingested in the index `win_eventlogs`.

Answer the questions belowConnect with the lab.
Correct Answer

### **Answer the questions below**

**Question:** Connect with the lab.

_Answer:_

     No answer needed

---

# Task 2 | Scenario: Identify and Investigate an Infected Host

One of the client’s IDS indicated a potentially suspicious process execution indicating one of the hosts from the HR department was compromised. Some tools related to network information gathering / scheduled tasks were executed which confirmed the suspicion. Due to limited resources, we could only pull the process execution logs with Event ID: 4688 and ingested them into Splunk with the index **win_eventlogs** for further investigation.

About the Network Information

The network is divided into three logical segments. It will help in the investigation.

**IT Department**

- James
- Moin
- Katrina

  **HR department**

- Haroon
- Chris
- Diana

  **Marketing department**

- Bell
- Amelia
- Deepak

Answer the questions belowHow many logs are ingested from the month of March, 2022?Correct AnswerImposter Alert: There seems to be an imposter account observed in the logs, what is the name of that user?

Correct AnswerWhich user from the HR department was observed to be running scheduled tasks?

Correct AnswerWhich user from the HR department executed a system process (LOLBIN) to download a payload from a file-sharing host.

Correct AnswerHintTo bypass the security controls, which system process (lolbin) was used to download a payload from the internet?

Correct AnswerWhat was the date that this binary was executed by the infected host? format (YYYY-MM-DD)

Correct AnswerWhich third-party site was accessed to download the malicious payload?

Correct AnswerWhat is the name of the file that was saved on the host machine from the C2 server during the post-exploitation phase?

Correct AnswerThe suspicious file downloaded from the C2 server contained malicious content with the pattern THM{..........}; what is that pattern?

Correct AnswerWhat is the URL that the infected host connected to?

Correct Answer

### **Answer the questions below**

**Question:** How many logs are ingested from the month of March, 2022?

_Answer:_

     13959

**Question:** Imposter Alert: There seems to be an imposter account observed in the logs, what is the name of that user?

_Answer:_

     Amel1a

**Question:** Which user from the HR department was observed to be running scheduled tasks?

_Answer:_

     Chris.fort

**Question:** Which user from the HR department executed a system process (LOLBIN) to download a payload from a file-sharing host.

_Answer:_

     haroon

**Question:** To bypass the security controls, which system process (lolbin) was used to download a payload from the internet?

_Answer:_

     certutil.exe

**Question:** What was the date that this binary was executed by the infected host? format (YYYY-MM-DD)

_Answer:_

     2022-03-04

**Question:** Which third-party site was accessed to download the malicious payload?

_Answer:_

     controlc.com

**Question:** What is the name of the file that was saved on the host machine from the C2 server during the post-exploitation phase?

_Answer:_

     benign.exe

**Question:** The suspicious file downloaded from the C2 server contained malicious content with the pattern THM{..........}; what is that pattern?

_Answer:_

     THM{KJ&*H^B0}

**Question:** What is the URL that the infected host connected to?

_Answer:_

     https://controlc.com/e4d11035

---
