---
layout: post
title: "TryHackMe  - Mac Hunt"
date: 2025-09-07
tags: ["tryhackme"]
categories: [tryhackme]
hubs: "TryHackMe/Advanced Endpoint Investigations/macOS Forensics"
identifier: "20250907T000000"
source_id: "e11bb644-007c-4ece-94d2-8a466f911dd9"
source_urls: "(https://tryhackme.com/room/machunt)"
source_path: "Advanced Endpoint Investigations/macOS Forensics/20250907T000000--tryhackme-mac-hunt__tryhackme.md"
---

{% raw %}


# TryHackMe | Mac Hunt

## Task 1 | Job Phish

Room Prerequisites 
- [macOS Forensics: The Basics](https://tryhackme.com/room/macosforensicsbasics)
- [macOS Forensics: Artefacts](https://tryhackme.com/room/macosforensicsartefacts)
- [macOS Forensics: Applications](https://tryhackme.com/room/macosforensicsapplications)

 Scenario Jake had gained some good knowledge and skills in the game development field. So, he decided to enter the industry through a decent job and upgrade his finances. Little did he know that there were many fake recruiters in search of people looking for jobs. These fake recruiters lure the victim through attractive jobs to achieve their objectives, often to compromise the victim's machines and use them for malicious purposes. Having conventionally overlooked cyber security, Jake fell prey to such an attack. A well-crafted phishing attack with a promising job offer compromised his Mac machine.

 You are tasked to investigate Jake's machine to determine the attack chain and identify the extent of the harm caused by answering the questions in this task.

 **Note:** Before you begin analyzing the case, mount the image present at `/home/ubuntu/Jack_Mac.img` to `/home/ubuntu/mac`. To mount the image, you can use the command: `sudo apfs-fuse -v 4 /home/ubuntu/Jack_Mac.img /home/ubuntu/mac`. Then, switch to the root user with `sudo su` to analyze the mounted image.

 Starting the Machine Let’s start the virtual machine by pressing the **Start Machine**  button below. The machine will start in split view.

 Start Machine In case the VM is not visible, use the blue **Show Split View**  button at the top of the page.

### **Answer the questions below**

**Question:** What is the name of the most recently accessed folder by the user?

*Answer:* 

     Downloads

**Question:** Which social platform did the attacker use to deliver the document?

*Answer:* 

     Linkedin

**Question:** What link did the attacker craft for the victim to download the MeetMeLive application?

*Answer:* 

     http://files.techthm.careers.thm:8080/MeetMeLiveInstaller.pkg

**Question:** Which network did Jake connect to after reading the instructions in the PDF?

*Answer:* 

     Jake M. iPhone

**Question:** What was the  IP address assigned to Jake’s system?

*Answer:* 

     192.168.64.2

**Question:** When did the application get installed into the system? (YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS)

*Answer:* 

     2025-04-30 08:54:20

**Question:** What is the human-friendly name for the permission the user explicitly granted for the application?

*Answer:* 

     Full Disk Access

**Question:** Which feature of the OS did the attacker use to run their application at startup persistently?

*Answer:* 

     LaunchAgents

**Question:** What was the URL to which the application was exfiltrating data?

*Answer:* 

     http://techthm.thm/exfil

---
{% endraw %}
